CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Adaptive Tests

This is a simple idea that should have existed years ago. Help make it better.

## Table of Contents

- [The Vision](#the-vision)
- [Development Setup](#development-setup)
- [VS Code Extension Development](#vs-code-extension-development)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Guidelines](#guidelines)
- [Pull Request Process](#pull-request-process)
- [Branch Naming](#branch-naming)
- [Commit Message Conventions](#commit-message-conventions)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [License](#license)

## The Vision

Tests should validate functionality, not file locations. This project shows how.

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js**: Version 16.0.0 or higher (see `engines` field in package.json)
- **npm**: Version 7.0.0 or higher
- **Git**: For cloning the repository

### Getting Started

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests.git
cd adaptive-tests

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run tests to verify setup
npm test

# Run the validation script
npm run validate
```

### VS Code Extension Development

If you're working on the VS Code extension:

```bash
cd vscode-adaptive-tests-extension_experimental
npm install
npm run compile

# Open VS Code and press F5 to launch the extension development host
```

## Code of Conduct

Please read our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before contributing. We are committed to providing a welcoming and inclusive environment for all contributors.

## How to Contribute

### Share Your Use Cases

- Port the pattern to other languages (Python, Go, Rust, etc.)
- Add framework-specific examples (React, Angular, Express, etc.)
- Share your refactoring horror stories and how this helped

### Improve the Core

- Make discovery faster
- Add smarter caching strategies
- Support more module systems (ESM, TypeScript, etc.)
- Add better error messages when discovery fails

### Documentation

- Add more examples
- Translate documentation
- Write blog posts about your experience
- Create example projects and demos

## Guidelines

1. **Keep it simple** – Copy/paste friendly, no heavy setup
2. **Minimal, explicit deps** – Engine depends on `@babel/parser`; TypeScript support uses optional `ts-node`
3. **Real validation only** – Tests must assert behaviour, not just pass
4. **Multi-language friendly** – JS/TS today, Python companion available

## Pull Request Process

- Create a focused branch for your change and open a PR early (drafts welcome).
- Ensure CI passes locally before requesting review: `npm test` and `npm run validate`.
- Include tests for behavior changes and update docs where user-facing.
- Keep PRs scoped and concise; link related issues using `Closes #123`.
- Respond to review feedback and rebase if requested to maintain a clean history.

## Branch Naming

Use a short, kebab-cased prefix describing the change type:

- `feat/<scope>-<summary>` – new features (e.g., `feat/discovery-recency-bonus`)
- `fix/<scope>-<summary>` – bug fixes (e.g., `fix/python-cache-timeout`)
- `docs/<scope>-<summary>` – documentation changes
- `chore/<scope>-<summary>` – tooling, deps, non-functional changes
- `refactor/<scope>-<summary>` – internal refactors without behavior change
- `test/<scope>-<summary>` – test-only changes

## Commit Message Conventions

Prefer Conventional Commits format:

```text
<type>(<scope>): <short summary>

<body>
<footer>
```

Common types: `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `chore`, `refactor`, `test`, `build`, `ci`.
Keep the summary imperative and under ~72 chars. Reference issues using `Closes #123` or `Refs #123` as needed.

## Testing

Before submitting a PR:

```bash
npm run validate
npm test
npm run check:binaries
```

This ensures:

- Tests pass with working code
- Tests survive refactoring
- Tests fail on actual bugs
- No platform-specific Go binaries are accidentally committed

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under MIT.

Commit message:

v0.3.0   docs: add publishing instructions and launch announcement template

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Adaptive Tests

This is a simple idea that should have existed years ago. Help make it better.

## Table of Contents

- [The Vision](#the-vision)
- [Development Setup](#development-setup)
- [VS Code Extension Development](#vs-code-extension-development)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Guidelines](#guidelines)
- [Pull Request Process](#pull-request-process)
- [Branch Naming](#branch-naming)
- [Commit Message Conventions](#commit-message-conventions)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [License](#license)

## The Vision

Tests should validate functionality, not file locations. This project shows how.

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js**: Version 16.0.0 or higher (see `engines` field in package.json)
- **npm**: Version 7.0.0 or higher
- **Git**: For cloning the repository

### Getting Started

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests.git
cd adaptive-tests

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run tests to verify setup
npm test

# Run the validation script
npm run validate
```

### VS Code Extension Development

If you're working on the VS Code extension:

```bash
cd vscode-adaptive-tests-extension_experimental
npm install
npm run compile

# Open VS Code and press F5 to launch the extension development host
```

## Code of Conduct

Please read our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before contributing. We are committed to providing a welcoming and inclusive environment for all contributors.

## How to Contribute

### Share Your Use Cases

- Port the pattern to other languages (Python, Go, Rust, etc.)
- Add framework-specific examples (React, Angular, Express, etc.)
- Share your refactoring horror stories and how this helped

### Improve the Core

- Make discovery faster
- Add smarter caching strategies
- Support more module systems (ESM, TypeScript, etc.)
- Add better error messages when discovery fails

### Documentation

- Add more examples
- Translate documentation
- Write blog posts about your experience
- Create example projects and demos

## Guidelines

1. **Keep it simple** – Copy/paste friendly, no heavy setup
2. **Minimal, explicit deps** – Engine depends on `@babel/parser`; TypeScript support uses optional `ts-node`
3. **Real validation only** – Tests must assert behaviour, not just pass
4. **Multi-language friendly** – JS/TS today, Python companion available

## Pull Request Process

- Create a focused branch for your change and open a PR early (drafts welcome).
- Ensure CI passes locally before requesting review: `npm test` and `npm run validate`.
- Include tests for behavior changes and update docs where user-facing.
- Keep PRs scoped and concise; link related issues using `Closes #123`.
- Respond to review feedback and rebase if requested to maintain a clean history.

## Branch Naming

Use a short, kebab-cased prefix describing the change type:

- `feat/<scope>-<summary>` – new features (e.g., `feat/discovery-recency-bonus`)
- `fix/<scope>-<summary>` – bug fixes (e.g., `fix/python-cache-timeout`)
- `docs/<scope>-<summary>` – documentation changes
- `chore/<scope>-<summary>` – tooling, deps, non-functional changes
- `refactor/<scope>-<summary>` – internal refactors without behavior change
- `test/<scope>-<summary>` – test-only changes

## Commit Message Conventions

Prefer Conventional Commits format:

```text
<type>(<scope>): <short summary>

<body>
<footer>
```

Common types: `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `chore`, `refactor`, `test`, `build`, `ci`.
Keep the summary imperative and under ~72 chars. Reference issues using `Closes #123` or `Refs #123` as needed.

## Testing

Before submitting a PR:

```bash
npm run validate
npm test
npm run check:binaries
```

This ensures:

- Tests pass with working code
- Tests survive refactoring
- Tests fail on actual bugs
- No platform-specific Go binaries are accidentally committed

## Publishing

When cutting a release:

```bash
npm run publish:all
```

This sequentially publishes `@adaptive-tests/javascript`, `@adaptive-tests/typescript`, and the umbrella `adaptive-tests` CLI with public access. After publishing, tag the release (`git tag v<version> && git push origin --tags`) and create a GitHub Release that links the changelog entry.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under MIT.
