DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# Development Guide

## 🚀 Quick Development Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests.git
cd adaptive-tests

# Install dependencies for the language you want to work on:

# JavaScript/TypeScript
cd languages/javascript && npm install

# Python
cd languages/python && pip install -e .[test]

# Java
cd languages/java && mvn install
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```text
adaptive-tests/
├── languages/              # Language-specific packages
│   ├── javascript/         # @adaptive-tests/javascript workspace
│   ├── typescript/         # @adaptive-tests/typescript workspace
│   ├── python/             # adaptive-tests-py package
│   ├── java/               # adaptive-tests-java package
│   └── ...                 # Other language placeholders
├── tools/                  # Developer tools
│   └── vscode-adaptive-tests/ # VS Code extension source
├── scripts/                # Build and validation scripts
└── docs/                   # Documentation
```

## 🧪 Testing

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
npm test

# Run with coverage
npm run test:coverage

# Run specific test file
npm test -- tests/unit/discovery.test.js

# Run validation suite
npm run validate

# Watch mode
npm test -- --watch
```

### Test Organization

- **Unit Tests**: Test individual functions and classes
- **Integration Tests**: Test language integrations
- **Validation Tests**: End-to-end scenarios proving adaptive behavior

## 🔧 Development Commands

```bash
# Build TypeScript types
npm run build:types

# Build plugins
npm run build:plugins

# Lint code
npm run lint

# Format code
npm run format

# Check markdown
npm run lint:markdown

# Check for broken links
npm run lint:links
```

## 🌍 Language Integrations

### Adding a New Language

1. Create integration file: `src/adaptive/<language>/<language>-discovery-integration.js`
2. Implement `BaseLanguageIntegration` interface
3. Add AST parser (preferably native)
4. Add tests in `tests/integration/<language>/`
5. Add example in `examples/<language>/`
6. Update documentation

### Language Integration Checklist

- [ ] AST parser implementation
- [ ] Fallback regex parser
- [ ] Class discovery
- [ ] Function discovery
- [ ] Module discovery
- [ ] Test scaffolding
- [ ] Documentation
- [ ] Examples
- [ ] Integration tests

## 📝 Code Style

### JavaScript/TypeScript

- Use ES6+ features
- Async/await over promises
- Descriptive variable names
- JSDoc comments for public APIs
- No console.log in production code

### Commit Messages

Follow conventional commits:

```text
feat: add Ruby AST parser
fix: resolve Python cache issue
docs: update React quickstart
chore: update dependencies
test: add async discovery tests
```

## 🐛 Debugging

### Debug Mode

```bash
# Enable debug output
DEBUG=adaptive:* npm test

# Debug specific module
DEBUG=adaptive:discovery npm test

# Verbose CLI output
npx adaptive-tests --verbose
```

### Common Issues

1. **Discovery not finding classes**
   - Check file extensions
   - Verify AST parser is working
   - Check ignore patterns

2. **Performance issues**
   - Enable caching
   - Check for large node_modules
   - Use ignore patterns

3. **Language parser failures**
   - Verify language runtime installed
   - Check parser dependencies
   - Review fallback behavior

## 🚢 Publishing

### Pre-release Checklist

- [ ] All tests passing
- [ ] Validation suite passes
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md updated
- [ ] Version bumped
- [ ] Examples working

### Release Process

```bash
# Run full validation
npm run prepublishOnly

# Bump version
npm version patch|minor|major

# Publish to npm
npm publish

# Create GitHub release
git push --tags
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### Pull Request Process

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests for new functionality
5. Ensure all tests pass: `npm test`
6. Update documentation
7. Commit with conventional commits
8. Push to your fork
9. Open pull request

### Code Review Checklist

- [ ] Tests included and passing
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] No breaking changes (or documented)
- [ ] Follows code style
- [ ] Performance considered
- [ ] Edge cases handled

## 📚 Resources

### Internal Documentation

- [Architecture Overview](../docs/HOW_IT_WORKS.md)
- [API Reference](../docs/API_REFERENCE.md)
- [Language Integration Guide](../src/adaptive/README.md)

### External Resources

- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests/discussions)
- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests/issues)
- [npm Package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/adaptive-tests)

## 🔍 Useful Commands

```bash
# Find TODO comments
grep -r "TODO" src/

# Check bundle size
npm run build && du -sh dist/

# List all npm scripts
npm run

# Check for outdated dependencies
npm outdated

# Audit for vulnerabilities
npm audit
```

## 💡 Development Tips

1. **Use the VS Code Extension**: Install our extension for better development experience
2. **Run validate frequently**: Catches issues early
3. **Test with examples**: Use example projects to verify changes
4. **Check multiple languages**: Ensure changes don't break other integrations
5. **Document as you go**: Update docs with code changes

## 🏗️ Architecture Principles

1. **Discovery First**: Always prioritize discovery accuracy
2. **AST Over Regex**: Use proper parsers when available
3. **Fail Gracefully**: Always have fallbacks
4. **Cache Aggressively**: Performance matters
5. **Developer Experience**: Make it easy to use

## 🎯 Performance Guidelines

- Discovery should complete in <100ms for small projects
- Cache hit rate should be >80%
- Memory usage should stay under 100MB
- Support projects with 10,000+ files

## 🔐 Security

- Never execute discovered code during discovery
- Sanitize all file paths
- Validate all user input
- Use AST parsing to avoid code injection
- Keep dependencies updated

---

Questions? Open a [discussion](https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests/discussions) or check our [troubleshooting guide](../docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md).

Commit message:

Refactor: Remove obsolete PHP, Python, Ruby, Rust, and Wolfram discovery integration and collector interfaces
- Deleted PHPDiscoveryCollector and PhpDiscoveryIntegration interfaces.
- Removed PythonDiscoveryIntegration and PythonDiscoveryCollector interfaces.
- Eliminated RubyDiscoveryIntegration and RubyDiscoveryCollector interfaces.
- Removed RustDiscoveryCollector and RustDiscoveryIntegration interfaces.
- Deleted WolframDiscoveryCollector and WolframDiscoveryIntegration interfaces.
- Added Go, Java, and Python scaffold fixtures for service implementations.
- Introduced new Wolfram Language modules and generated tests for adaptive testing.

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# Development Guide

## 🚀 Quick Development Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests.git
cd adaptive-tests

# Install dependencies for the language you want to work on:

# JavaScript/TypeScript
cd languages/javascript && npm install

# Python
cd languages/python && pip install -e .[test]

# Java
cd languages/java && mvn install
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```text
adaptive-tests/
├── languages/              # Language-specific packages
│   ├── javascript/         # @adaptive-tests/javascript workspace
│   ├── typescript/         # @adaptive-tests/typescript workspace
│   ├── python/             # adaptive-tests-py package
│   ├── java/               # adaptive-tests-java package
│   └── ...                 # Other language placeholders
├── tools/                  # Developer tools
│   └── vscode-adaptive-tests/ # VS Code extension source
├── scripts/                # Build and validation scripts
└── docs/                   # Documentation
```

## 🧪 Testing

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
npm test

# Run with coverage
npm run test:coverage

# Run specific test file
npm test -- tests/unit/discovery.test.js

# Run validation suite
npm run validate

# Watch mode
npm test -- --watch
```

### Test Organization

- **Unit Tests**: Test individual functions and classes
- **Integration Tests**: Test language integrations
- **Validation Tests**: End-to-end scenarios proving adaptive behavior

## 🔧 Development Commands

```bash
# Build TypeScript types
npm run build:types

# Build plugins
npm run build:plugins

# Lint code
npm run lint

# Format code
npm run format

# Check markdown
npm run lint:markdown

# Check for broken links
npm run lint:links
```

## 🌍 Language Integrations

### Adding a New Language

1. Scaffold a dedicated package under `languages/<language>/` with its own `package.json` (or build file) and `src/` directory.
2. Implement a language-specific discovery engine within that package. Follow the JavaScript or Python implementations as references, but do not import runtime code from other languages.
3. Wire up any CLI or scaffolding entry points inside the same package so they can ship independently.
4. Add adaptive fixtures and tests in `languages/<language>/tests/` that exercise the new discovery engine end-to-end.
5. Provide runnable examples in `languages/<language>/examples/` demonstrating integration.
6. Update documentation to cover installation, configuration, and limitations for the new package.

### Language Integration Checklist

- [ ] AST parser implementation
- [ ] Fallback regex parser (if needed)
- [ ] Class discovery
- [ ] Function discovery
- [ ] Module discovery
- [ ] Package-local test scaffolding
- [ ] Documentation
- [ ] Examples
- [ ] Integration tests

## 📝 Code Style

### JavaScript/TypeScript

- Use ES6+ features
- Async/await over promises
- Descriptive variable names
- JSDoc comments for public APIs
- No console.log in production code

### Commit Messages

Follow conventional commits:

```text
feat: add Ruby AST parser
fix: resolve Python cache issue
docs: update React quickstart
chore: update dependencies
test: add async discovery tests
```

## 🐛 Debugging

### Debug Mode

```bash
# Enable debug output
DEBUG=adaptive:* npm test

# Debug specific module
DEBUG=adaptive:discovery npm test

# Verbose CLI output
npx adaptive-tests --verbose
```

### Common Issues

1. **Discovery not finding classes**
   - Check file extensions
   - Verify AST parser is working
   - Check ignore patterns

2. **Performance issues**
   - Enable caching
   - Check for large node_modules
   - Use ignore patterns

3. **Language parser failures**
   - Verify language runtime installed
   - Check parser dependencies
   - Review fallback behavior

## 🚢 Publishing

### Pre-release Checklist

- [ ] All tests passing
- [ ] Validation suite passes
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] CHANGELOG.md updated
- [ ] Version bumped
- [ ] Examples working

### Release Process

```bash
# Run full validation
npm run prepublishOnly

# Bump version
npm version patch|minor|major

# Publish to npm
npm publish

# Create GitHub release
git push --tags
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### Pull Request Process

1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests for new functionality
5. Ensure all tests pass: `npm test`
6. Update documentation
7. Commit with conventional commits
8. Push to your fork
9. Open pull request

### Code Review Checklist

- [ ] Tests included and passing
- [ ] Documentation updated
- [ ] No breaking changes (or documented)
- [ ] Follows code style
- [ ] Performance considered
- [ ] Edge cases handled

## 📚 Resources

### Internal Documentation

- [Architecture Overview](../docs/HOW_IT_WORKS.md)
- [API Reference](../docs/API_REFERENCE.md)
- [Language Integration Guide](../src/adaptive/README.md)

### External Resources

- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests/discussions)
- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests/issues)
- [npm Package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/adaptive-tests)

## 🔍 Useful Commands

```bash
# Find TODO comments
grep -r "TODO" src/

# Check bundle size
npm run build && du -sh dist/

# List all npm scripts
npm run

# Check for outdated dependencies
npm outdated

# Audit for vulnerabilities
npm audit
```

## 💡 Development Tips

1. **Use the VS Code Extension**: Install our extension for better development experience
2. **Run validate frequently**: Catches issues early
3. **Test with examples**: Use example projects to verify changes
4. **Check multiple languages**: Ensure changes don't break other integrations
5. **Document as you go**: Update docs with code changes

## 🏗️ Architecture Principles

1. **Discovery First**: Always prioritize discovery accuracy
2. **AST Over Regex**: Use proper parsers when available
3. **Fail Gracefully**: Always have fallbacks
4. **Cache Aggressively**: Performance matters
5. **Developer Experience**: Make it easy to use

## 🎯 Performance Guidelines

- Discovery should complete in <100ms for small projects
- Cache hit rate should be >80%
- Memory usage should stay under 100MB
- Support projects with 10,000+ files

## 🔐 Security

- Never execute discovered code during discovery
- Sanitize all file paths
- Validate all user input
- Use AST parsing to avoid code injection
- Keep dependencies updated

---

Questions? Open a [discussion](https://github.com/anon57396/adaptive-tests/discussions) or check our [troubleshooting guide](../docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md).
